 1 Preface to the first edition 
 2
19 This book is meant to help the reader learn how to program in C. It contains 
20 a tutorial introduction toget new users started as soon as possible, separate 
21 chapters on each major feature, and a reference manual. Most of the treatment 
22 is based on reading, writing and revising examples, rather than on 
23 merestatements of rules. For the most part, the examples are complete, real 
24 programs rather than isolated fragments. All examples have been tested 
25 directly from the text, which is inmachine-readable form. Besides showing how 
26 to make effective use of the language, we have also tried where possible to 
27 illustrate useful algorithms and principles of good style and sound design. 
28
29 The book is not an introductory programming manual; it assumes some 
30 familiarity with basic programming concepts like variables, assignment 
31 statements, loops, and functions. Nonetheless, a novice programmer should be 
32 able to read along and pick up the language, although access to more 
33 knowledgeable colleague will help. 
34
35 In our experience, C has proven to be apleasant, expressive and versatile 
36 language for a wide variety of programs. It is easy to learn, and it wears 
37 well as on's experience with it grows. We hope that this book will help you 
38 to use it well. 
39
40 The thoughtful criticisms and suggestions of many friends and colleagues have 
41 added greatly  to this book and to our pleasure in writing it. In particular, 
42 Mike Bianchi, Jim Blue, Stu Feldman, Doug McIlroy Bill Roome, Bob Rosinand 
43 Larry Rosler all read multiple volumes with care. We are also indebted to Al 
44 Aho, Steve Bourne, Dan Dvorak, Chuck Haley, Debbie Haley, Marion Harris, Rick 
45 Holt, Steve Johnson, John Mashey, Bob Mitze, Ralph Muha, Peter Nelson, Elliot 
46 Pinson, Bill Plauger, Jerry Spivack, Ken Thompson, and Peter Weinberger for 
47 helpful comments at various stages, and to Mile Lesk and Joe Ossanna for 
48 invaluable assistance with typesetting.
49
50 	Brian W. Kernighan
51 	Dennis M. Ritchie 
